# Remove Element

## Question

Given an integer array nums and an integer val, remove all occurrences of val in nums in-place. The order of the elements may be changed. Then return the number of elements in nums which are not equal to val.

Consider the number of elements in nums which are not equal to val be k, to get accepted, you need to do the following things:

- Change the array nums such that the first k elements of nums contain the elements which are not equal to val. The remaining elements of nums are not important as well as the size of nums.
- Return k.

## Example

### Example 1

**Input:**

    nums = [3,2,2,3], val = 3

**Output:**

    2, nums = [2,2,_,_]

**Explanation:**

    Your function should return k = 2, with the first two elements of nums being 2.
    It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).

### Example 2

**Input:**

    nums = [0,1,2,2,3,0,4,2], val = 2

**Output:**

    5, nums = [0,1,4,0,3,_,_,_]

**Explanation:**

    Your function should return k = 5, with the first five elements of nums containing 0, 0, 1, 3, and 4.
    Note that the five elements can be returned in any order.
    It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).

## Solution

### Java

```java
public class Solution {
    public int removeElement(int[] nums, int val) {
        int i = 0;
        for (int j = 0; j < nums.length; j++) {
            if (nums[j] != val) {
                nums[i] = nums[j];
                i++;
            }
        }
        return i;
    }
}
```

### Python

```python
class Solution:
    def removeElement(self, nums: List[int], val: int) -> int:
        i = 0
        for j in range(len(nums)):
            if nums[j] != val:
                nums[i] = nums[j]
                i += 1
        return i
```

### C++

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int removeElement(vector<int>& nums, int val) {
        int i = 0;
        for (int j = 0; j < nums.size(); j++) {
            if (nums[j] != val) {
                nums[i] = nums[j];
                i++;
            }
        }
        return i;
    }
};
```

Please note that the code provided in Java, Python, and C++ all follow the same logic. They use two pointers, one for iterating the array and the other for keeping track of the position where the next element that is not equal to val should be placed. When an element that is not equal to val is found, it is moved to the position of the second pointer, and then the second pointer is incremented. The function returns the position of the second pointer, which is the number of elements that are not equal to val.