# Remove Duplicates from Sorted Array II

## Question

Given an integer array nums sorted in non-decreasing order, remove some duplicates in-place such that each unique element appears at most twice. The relative order of the elements should be kept the same.

Since it is impossible to change the length of the array in some languages, you must instead have the result be placed in the first part of the array nums. More formally, if there are k elements after removing the duplicates, then the first k elements of nums should hold the final result. It does not matter what you leave beyond the first k elements.

Return k after placing the final result in the first k slots of nums.

Do not allocate extra space for another array. You must do this by modifying the input array in-place with O(1) extra memory.

## Example

### Example 1

**Input:**

    nums = [1,1,1,2,2,3]

**Output:**

    5, nums = [1,1,2,2,3,_]

**Explanation:**

    Your function should return k = 5, with the first five elements of nums being 1, 1, 2, 2 and 3 respectively.
    It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).

### Example 2

**Input:**

    nums = [0,0,1,1,1,1,2,3,3]

**Output:**

    7, nums = [0,0,1,1,2,3,3,_,_]

**Explanation:**

    Your function should return k = 7, with the first seven elements of nums being 0, 0, 1, 1, 2, 3 and 3 respectively.
    It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).

## Solution

### Python

```python
class Solution:
    def removeDuplicates(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        i = 0
        for n in nums:
            if i < 2 or n > nums[i-2]:
                nums[i] = n
                i += 1
        return i
```

### Java

```java
public class Solution {
    public int removeDuplicates(int[] nums) {
        int i = 0;
        for (int n : nums)
            if (i < 2 || n > nums[i-2])
                nums[i++] = n;
        return i;
    }
}
```

### C++

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int removeDuplicates(vector<int>& nums) {
        int i = 0;
        for (int n : nums)
            if (i < 2 || n > nums[i-2])
                nums[i++] = n;
        return i;
    }
};
```

The solution uses two pointers, one for iterating the array and the other for keeping track of the position where the next unique element should be placed. When a unique element is found or the current element is the same as the previous but different from the one before the previous, it is moved to the position of the second pointer, and then the second pointer is incremented. The function returns the position of the second pointer, which is the number of unique elements.